--------------------------------
Using issSpellStates by Example
--------------------------------
This tutoral is intended to walk users of issSpellStates through the appropriate use of the Framework by using the framework
to complete a set of tasks.  For those who best learn by doing, this should get you at least 90% of the way there.

The document assumes the user is using the issSpellStates_Base campaign file to complete this tutorial.  No information is
being provided for the setup or installation of issSpellStates or the configuration of an existing campaign to use the tool.  For
that information, please see the README file and any corresponding documentation.

All tasks below assume the user has downloaded the most recent copy of the issSpellStates distribution file and that their
installation of MapTool meets the requirments in the "Requirements" section of the README.  Please unzip the distribution .zip
file to a local directory before proceeding, and make sure you know where you've unzipped to and the basics of nagivating around
your computer to get ahold of files.


--- Initialization: ---

Lets start by opening the campaign file and adding a test token to our Library Map to play with.
* Open the issSpellStates_Base campaign file from the Zip and add a "PC Token" to the "Grasslands" map.
* Open the "Window" menu and make sure "Selection, GM and Campaign" are open.
* Click on "Lib:issSpellStates" in your Library map (the "Grasslands" Map).
* Copy the "DM States Toolbox" macro to your GM Window by Dragging the button from the Selection Window to the GM Window.
* Copy the "Lookup Spell Info" macro to your Campaign Window by dragging the button from the Selection Window to the Campaign Window
* Copy the "States Management Form" macro to your GM Window.
* Copy the "Get Token Effects" macro to your Campaign Window.

During the example, I will use "Lbrary Token" to mean the "Lib:issSpellStates" token and "PC Token"
to designate the token representing our NPC or PC we will be applying states to.  We are assuming the use of 
issSpellStates for D&D 5th Edition and that all States exist as the issSpellStates_Base campaign file would 
have them.  If you are adding this to your own campaign, please make sure that states are setup properly.

--- Looking Up Spell Information ---
This is a quick and dirty spellbook style lookup for D&D 5e Spells.  This will be used more later when we use links 
to spell effects set on our tokens to look up spells that are affecting us, but for now, this can be used as a very 
quick and efficient way of looking up spells.

* Click the "Lookup Spell Info" button on the Campaign Window.
* In the Box next to the "search" button, type "Fireball" and click Search or hit Enter.

You'll see the fireball spell come up with it's information, text and spell stat block.  Use this for an easy/quick
reference to spells in 5th edition!

* Type "Fireba" into the box and click Search or hit Enter.

You'll note that the box returns "No Spell Found".  Searches must be made using the full spell name for it to find
the spell.

Ok, that was easy.  It is worth docking this window somewhere on your interface for use later.  A "vertical" format
I find works best, we can eventually stack with this our States management form along one side of the screen for ease
of use.

--- Settimg Up the Toolbox ---
To begin with, we need to add some spells to the Toolbox for use.

* Click the "DM States Toolbox" button in the GM window to begin.

To add a spell, type it's name into the box next to the "Search" button.  You can either click the "search" button or just
hit <enter> after typing the spell's name, but you need to type the FULL spell's name.

* Type "Fireball" into the search box and hit enter.

You'll note that the spell "Fireball" as found in the database and was displayed in the table just below the search box.
You'll also note that a big red "X" appears in the column under "Buff" and "Debuff" that means that the spell we entered
does not have an effect we can set on the target.  You'll find both "Lightning Bolt" and "Magic Missile" also fall into
this category.  While these ARE D&D 5e spells, they do not set spell effects (buffs or debuffs) on the target and thus
cannot be tracked by issSpellStates.

* Type "NoSpell" into the Search Box and hit Enter.

You'll note that "NoSpell" is not a spell to be found in our spells database.  When you type the name of a non-existing
spell or misspell a spell, you will get "No Spell Found" appearing in the table below the search box.  Try again!

Ok, now lets start adding some spells for real to the toolbox.

* Type "Bless" into the Search Box and hit Enter.

You'll note a green "Check Mark" appears under the "Buff" column identifying this spell as applying a beneficial spell
effect to a target.  You'll also note to the left of the spell name is a "+" button.  This is how you add a spell
to the toolbox.  So long as the spell has a green checkmark in either the "Buff" or "Debuff" column, it will give
you a "+" button to add the spell to the toolbox.

* Click the "+" Button 

You'll now see a green button appear under the "States In Toolbox" section below with the word "Bless" in it.  
We've successfully added a trackable spell state to our toolbox!  Now, for full functionality demonstration, lets
assume for a moment we really don't want to track Bless.  Removing a state from the toolbox is as easy as clicking
it's button again!

* Click the green "Bless" button under "States in Toolbox"

It's gone!  That's all it takes to remove states from the toolbox.  Now, lets go ahead and add a couple more
states:

* Type "Bless" into the Search Box and Hit Enter - Add this State by using the "+" Button
* Type "Hex" into the Search Box and hit Enter - Add this State by using the "+" Button
* Type "Mage Armor" into the Search Box and hit Enter - Add this State by using the "+" Button

You'll note that Bless and Mage Armor are both Green Buttons but Hex is Red, this is because Hex sets a determental
effect on the target while "Bless" and "Mage Armor" are beneficial effects.

Now, lets check out the last of the DM States Toolbox Functionality, resetting back to a clean toolbox!

Assuming you have added a bunch of states that your players are no longer using, and instead of clicking each
button one by one you just want to start over.  Click the "Clear Toolbox" link (don't worry, it won't do
anything yet).

You'll note a dialog box pops up with a list of spells currently in your Toolbox library and their spell numbers.
At the bottom of this list is a check box and an "Ok" and "Cancel" button.

* Check the Checkbox and Click "Ok"

You'll note all of the states in your toolbox are now gone!  You're reset and ready for a new campaign.

Ok, lets add a few states that we'll be playing with in the next section.

* Add "Bless" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Hex" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Mage Armor" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Stoneskin" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Blur" to the Toolbox
* Add "Banishment" to the Toolbox
* Add "Fly" to the Toolbox
* Add "Guidance" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Haste" to the Toolbox.
* Add "Guiding Bolt" to the Toolbox.

(Feel free to play with this and add others if you'd like).

Once you have all those states showing in your Tooltox, it's time to move to the next section, using these states!

--- Using the Toolbox to Track States ----
Now that we have some states in the toolbox, lets start tracking these abilties as they are applied to a target.
For your own campaign, you'll want to have added all the spell states that your PCs regularly cast.  I prefer a
"less is more" mentality with what I add to my toolbox since it's very easy to add another state on the fly if my
players start casting spells they don't normally use.

* On the GM or Campaign Window, click the "States Management Form" button.

This opens another dockable frame that contains all of the states we just added.  Personally, I like to dock this
window along a vertical just above the Spell Information box opened from "Lookup Spell Info", this allows me to
use the two boxes together easily to look up buffs and debuffs applied to tokens in my campaign.

Under "States in Toolbox" you should now see buttons for all of the states you just added on the Toolbox form.
(There's lots of things in this box, no worries, we'll cover them all).

The first thing to do now is to click on the PC Token on your map.  If have installed this to your own campaign
instead of using the supplied campaign file for this tutorial, you'll need to make sure all of your campaign
properties states and token properties are setup as noted in the installation instructions above.  If they 
are not, things will nor work properly!

Ok, so lets do the basic:  Lets apply the "Bless" state to the token.

* Click the PC Token (Note that the text changes to your token's name with "Current States" after it)
* Make sure "Refresh Spell Duration" is unchecked, and "Add Campaign States when Applying Spells" and "Remove
	Campaign States when Removeing Spells" are checked.  We'll get to what those do later, but for now make 
	sure these 3 options are set in this way for the following examples.
* Click the "Bless" green button in the States Toolbox.

Several things just happened.
* An Icon just appeared on your token (A Green Icon with a "Hand" with a swirling ball trailing fire around it)
* The Entry "Bless (10)" just appeared under "Buffs" in the "Manage Spell States" frame.

The icon is for the generic campaign properties state "Buffed".  This state is used quite a bit by
issSpellStates to identify a specialized beneficial spell has been applied to the target.

Note also that the entry in the "Manage Spell States" frame for "Bless (10)" is hyperlinked.  Clicking that 
hyperlink opens the "Bless" spell in the "Spell Information" window.  If you followed my advice and 
docked the two windows one above the other, this is an easy way to see what spell states are associated
with a token and what each of those states do.

Now, if you deselect your PC Token (by clicking off of it) you'll notice the "Manage Spell States" frame
stops showing the informaiton on the token.  If you were to highlight a different token it would instead
show states from that token.

Re-select the PC Token and it will re-display that token's effects.

Ok, lets add a determental effect to the PC Token as well.

* Click the PC Token
* Click "Hex"

Note Another Icon just popped up, this one is for the "Cursed" State.  The "Hex" spell sets the campaign
state "cursed" (You can see it by opening it's entry in the Spells table and parsing the JSON to find
the "State" data set within the JSON, you'll find it sets "Cursed") so "Cursed" was applied to our token.

Note that "Hex (600)" came in under the "Debuffs" column of the "Manage Spell States" frame under the
"Current States" section.  Again, it is hyperlinked and again clicking it will open the Spell Info form
for the "Hex" spell.

Ok, lets remove the Hexed State from our PC Token.

* Click the PC Token
* Click "Hex"

Note that both the "Hex" spell state was removed from the "Debuffs" column AND the Cursed campaign state
was removed from the token.  issSpellStates tries to clean up from itself when you add and remove spell
effects from a token.  However there are a few "Gotcha's" with that.

* Click the PC Token and click the "Blur" Button.

Note a new Spell State "Blur (10)" was added to the Buffs column on the Manage Spell States frame but
no new icon was set on the token, this is because both "Bless" and "Blur" set the generic "Buffed"
campaign State.  

Ok, lets remove Blur.

* Click the PC Token and click the "Blur" Button.

Oh oh.  Removing blur removed the identification marker for "buffed".  Now, when we look at the PC Token
we can't see that it has a spell effect on it, even though "bless" is still active.  Because we had
multiple spells that set the same campaign state, the first state to be removed also removed that 
campaign state from the token.  Not Awesome!

Just to clean things up, go ahead and remove Bless.

-- Options --

* Add Campaign States when Applying Spells

Here's where the options come in.  Hover your mouse over "Add Campaign States when Applying Spells" and
"Remove Campaign States when Removing Spells" and you'll notice that each of them has a hover over pop
up that gives you instructions about the option.  Generally, the "Add" option is what causes the
campaign states like "Buffed" or "Cursed" to be set when applying spell effects.

* Uncheck the Check Box next to "Add Campaign States..."
* Select the PC Token
* Click "Bless"

This time, you'll notice that bless did not set the "Buffed" state icon on the token.  With this unchecked
issSpellStates does not attempt to set any Campaign States, it ONLY tracks it's own spell effects, meaning
with this box unchecked, you can use issSpellStates without having a need to add to your campaign properties
in any way.  If you prefer to keep a limited set of states in your campaign or you don't use campaign
properties / states, or you just want to play around with issSpellStates without poluting your campaign 
before you find it useful, you can simply unset this checkbox and not bother with adding all the states 
that issSpellStates requires out of the box.

* Remove Campaign States when Removing Spells

Ok, lets reset again.

* Remove "Bless" from the PC Token.
* Re-check Add Campaign States when Applying Spells.
* Apply Bless and Blur to the PC Token.

Ok, so we now know what's going to happen if we unset blur...it's going to remove the "Buffed" mark on the
token and we'll no longer be able to see that "bless" is still a thing.

This time, however we're going to unset "Remove Campaign States when Removing Spells" to change this behavior.

* Uncheck "Remove Campaign States when Removing Spells"
* Unset the "blur" effect from the PC Token.

You'll notice "Blur" disappeared as an effect on the PC Token, but the "Buffed" campaign state remained.

* To finish up, re-check the Remove Campaign States option and remove Bless.

This did as expected, removing both the "Bless" Spell effect from the token and the "Buffed" campaign State.

Now on to our final option:

* Refresh Spell Duration

This option changes the behavior of clcking the button for the spell effect that is already applied to the
target.  Instead of removing the spell from the target it resets it's duration counter.  Lets see how
this works.

* Ensure Add Campaign States and Remove Campaign States are checked.
* Ensure "Refresh Spell Duration" is unchecked.
* Apply the "Bless" spell to the PC Token.

The Bless spell effect is applied and it's "hyperlinked" text appears under the "buffs" section of 
the "Manage Spell States" frame.  However, note how it says "Bless (10)".  The number in () is the
spell's duration in units of time...for D&D This is Rounds.  Bless lasts 1 minute as per it's spell 
description (click the hyperlink for bless to see it's spell information in the Spell Information 
Window)...so 1 minute, with 6 seconds / round, is 10 rounds.  So when first cast, Bless's Duration 
identifier is 10.

There are better ways of doing this, but for the example of this tutorial we're going to do things
the "manual" way.  (For a better way of handling this task, see the main documentation.)

Right click the PC token, click "Edit", and go to the "Properties" tab.  Right now you should see
one JSON object in "spellBuffs" that reads {"38":10}.  Change this to {"38":9} and refresh your
"Manage Spell States" frame (click off and back onto the PC Token).  You'll note that the frame 
now shows "Bless (9)".  

* Check the Box next to "Refresh Spell Duration" to make sure it is Checked.
* Click the PC Token
* Click "Bless"

This time, notice that clicking "Bless" did not remove the bless spell or the "buffed" state from the 
token even though that is the usual behavior.  Instead, notice how bless now reads "Bless (10)" again
like it has in the past, this is because instead of removing the spell, with "Refresh Spell Duration"
you are essentially "reapplying" the spell effect on the token.  Resetting it back to it's original
default state.

Use this option if you are actively using the spell effect durations and you need to re-apply a spell
to a token to refresh its duration.

OR There's one more SNEAKY use for this checkbox.

Remeber the problem from above?  Apply bless, apply blur, remove blur and it removes the "buffed" 
campaign state leaving us not knowing that bless is still there?

* Uncheck "Refresh Spell Duration", make sure both "Add/Remove Campaign States" check boxes are 
	checked.
* Apply "Bless" and "Blur" to the PC Token.
* Remove "Blur"

As above, the "Buffed" campaign state is gone.

* Click the CHeck Box by "Refresh Spell Duration"
* Click the PC Token
* Click "Bless"

Note that it re-applied the campaign state and DID NOT remove the spell.  This only works if
you aren't using or don't care about the "Current Duration" of bless, as doing this WOULD reset
the duration counter on bless.  But if you aren't using the duration counters actively, this is
an easy way to re-apply the correct campaign state without removing and re-applying the spell 
for any spell or ability.

--- Getting the Current State of a Token ---

The last capability of the issSpellStates framework is the ability to, at any point in time, 
get the current state of any token on the board.  Two clicks will get you all the information
you want about any token you'd like!

Lets start by setting some states on our PC Token.

* Options: Refresh Spell Duration off, Add/Remove Campaign States On
* Lets apply the following Spell Effects:  Bless, Haste, Stoneskin, Mage Armor, Blur, Guiding Bolt, 
Hex and Banishment.

Ok, our PC token now has 6 icons and 8 spell states set on him...in the middle of combat it can be 
tough to look at all of those icons and states and know exactly what they mean.  Along with what's
been set by issSpellStates there could be a host of OTHER Campaign states set on the token as well.

This can be confusing and cause delays as the DM tries to figure out how to set or unset states
based upon effects being added or cancelled.  issSpellStates has been developed with ease of use
and management in mind...with spells able to set and remove their own campaign states...but that
still doesn't mean it's easy to see everything.  And what about players, who may or may not have
access to the Manage Spell States box?  How do they know what everything happening on a token is?

The answer is "Get Token Effects": this button is intended to be a "click anytime and get all the
relevant information" in one easy to read format.

With your PC token loaded down with spell effects, click the "Get Token Effects" button to check
its current status.

* Click the PC Token (Loaded with spells)
* Click the "Get Token Effects" button.

The chat window just got an HTML formatted message with all of the relevant information in it.
We see that the "Cursed, Buffed, Debuffed, Disabled, Hasted and Resistence" campaign states are
set on the token.  We see that the token has Bless, Haste, Stoneskin, Mage Armor and Blur set on
it as buffs (and each of them are linked to the Spell Information frame to display that spell's
info at a glance just with a click), and we also see that it has the Guiding Bolt, Hex and
Banishment Debuffs on it...again, all linkded to the Spell Information Box.

With this, any player at any time can "request" a full layout of everything going on with a token
and get any relevant information about what that means...all through a few clicks of the mouse.  

You're still going to have to know spell and campaign effects, but at least it's better than
the old tabletop standby of "ok, there's a red, black and white milk ring around my character,
red stands for hex but what was white again?" only to figure out 4 rounds later that red really
meant banishment, white was hex and, oops, black was spell resistance that probably meant the
other two shouldn't have applied in the first place!

And, this beats the VTT standby of "Well, we don't HAVE a state for 'hex' so we'll use the 'blind'
state for it for now" only to have someone cast something with a blind spell effect 3 rounds in 
to combat and the DM has to play the "wait, ok, so I guess we'll now set the fightened state for hex"
or, conversely, for the DM to say "Wait, what did 'blind' man again?"
